# More Docker Compose Examples
## Simple Web Server

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  web:
    image: nginx:latest
    container_name: web
    restart: always
    ports:
      - 8080:80
```

This example sets up a simple web server using the latest Nginx image. It maps port 8080 on the host to port 80 on the container.

#
## Network Configuration

By default Compose sets up a single bridge network for your app. Each container for a service joins the default network and is both reachable by other containers on that network, and discoverable by them at a hostname identical to the container name.

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  api:
    image: my-api:latest
    networks:
      - backend-network
  database:
    image: postgres:latest
    networks:
      - backend-network
      - frontend-network
networks:
  backend-network:
  frontend-network:
```

This example demonstrates network configuration in Docker Compose. The `api` service and `database` service are connected to different networks. The `backend-network` is shared between both services, while the `frontend-network` is only associated with the `database` service.

In this example, the `backend-network` and `frontend-network` is defined without specifying a driver. As a result, the network will be created with the default driver, which is bridge. The app service is then connected to this network.

To understanding more about docker Networking drivers go to [this guide](https://www.docker.com/blog/understanding-docker-networking-drivers-use-cases/).

## Volumes Configuration

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  frontend:
    build: ./frontend
    network_mode: "host" 
    volumes:
      - ./frontend:/app
  backend:
    build: ./backend
    ports:
      - 8000:8000
    volumes:
      - ./backend:/app
```

This example demonstrates a multi-container application with separate frontend and backend services. Each service is built from a Dockerfile located in their respective directories. Ports are mapped, and **`volume bindings`** are set to ensure code changes are **`reflected in real-time`**.



## Environment Variables And Dependencies
```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  app:
    build: .
    ports:
      - 5000:5000
    environment:
      - DB_HOST=db
      - DB_PORT=5432
      - DB_USER=user
      - DB_PASS=password
    depends_on:
      - db
  db:
    image: postgres:latest
    ports:
      - 5432:5432
    environment:
      - POSTGRES_USER=user
      - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password
```

This example showcases an application with a database dependency. The `app` service requires the `db` service to be running before it starts. Environment variables are set for both services, including the database host and port.
#
[Back](./1.%20docker-compose.md) | [Next](../5.%20Practice/docker%20compose.md)